# nf-core/funcscan: Output

## Introduction

The output of nf-core/funcscan provides the output directories from each tool applied, as well as a summary of tool outputs for each of the functional groups: antibiotic resistance genes ([DeepARG](https://bitbucket.org/gusphdproj/deeparg-ss/src/master/), [fargene](https://github.com/fannyhb/fargene)), antimicrobial peptides ([macrel](https://github.com/BigDataBiology/macrel), [hmmsearch](http://hmmer.org)), biosynthetic gene clusters ([antiSMASH](https://docs.antismash.secondarymetabolites.org)) and functional annotation ([prokka](https://github.com/tseemann/prokka)).

Furtermore, summary statistics of the whole run is presented in a [MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) report.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory (specified by the `--outdir` flag) after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to this top-level output directory. The default directory sturcture of nf-core/funcscan is:

<!--
```bash
outdir/
#├── acep/
#├── ai4amp/
├── antismash/
#├── amplify/
#├── ampir/
#├── combiamp/
├── deeparg/
#├── ensembleamppred/
├── fargene/
├── hamronizer/
├── hmmsearch/
├── macrel/
├── multiqc/
#├── neubi/
├── pipeline_info/
├── prokka/
#└── rgi/
work/
```
-->

```bash
outdir/
├── antismash/
├── deeparg/
├── fargene/
├── hamronizer/
├── hmmsearch/
├── macrel/
├── multiqc/
├── pipeline_info/
└── prokka/
work/
```

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

Antimicrobial Resistance Genes (ARGs):

- [DeepARG](#deeparg) - antimicrobial resistance gene detection, using a deep learning model
- [fARGene](#fargene) - antimicrobial resistance gene detection, using a deep learning model
<!--* [rgi](#rgi) - antimicrobial resistance gene detection, based on alignment to the CARD database-->

Antimicrobial Peptides (AMPs) and peptide annotation:

- [Prokka](#prokka) - (default) open reading frame and functional protein annotation
  <!--* [prodigal](#prodigal) - (optional: replaces prokka) open reading frame annotation-->
  <!--* [acep](#acep) - antimicrobial peptide detection-->
  <!--* [ai4amp](#ai4amp) - antimicrobial peptide detection-->
  <!--* [ampir](#ampir) - antimicrobial peptide detection-->
  <!--* [amplify](#amplify) - antimicrobial peptide detection-->
  <!--* [EnsembleAMPPred](#ensembleamppred) - antimicrobial peptide detection-->
- [Macrel](#macrel) - antimicrobial peptide detection
<!--* [neubi](#neubi) - antimicrobial peptide detection-->

Biosynthetic Gene Clusters (BGCs):

- [hmmsearch](#hmmsearch) - biosynthetic gene cluster detection
- [antiSMASH](#antismash) - biosythedic gene cluster detection

Output Summaries:

- [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline
- [hAMRonization](#hamronization) - summarizes resistance gene output from various detection tools
  <!--* [combiAMP](#combiamp) - summarizes antimicrobial peptide detection output-->
  <!--* [comBGC](#combgc) - PRELIMINARY TOOL NAME - summarizes biosynthetic gene cluster detection output-->
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

### hAMRonization

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `hamronization/` one of the following:
  - `hamronization_combined_report.json`: summarized output in .json format
  - `hamronization_combined_report.tsv`: summarized output in .tsv format
  - `hamronization_combined_report.html`: interactive output in .html format

</details>

[hAMRonization](https://github.com/pha4ge/hAMRonization) summarizes the outputs of the **antimicrobial resistance gene** detection tools (DeepARG, fARGene) into a single unified format. It supports a variety of summary options including an interactive summary.

<!--### CombiAMP

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `combiamp/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[CombiAMP](https://link-to-tool-page.org) xxx tool description here xxx SUMMARY of AMP tools' output
-->

<!--### ComBGC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `combiamp/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[ComBGC](https://link-to-tool-page.org) xxx tool description here xxx SUMMARY of BGC tools' output
-->

### DeepARG

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `deeparg/`
  - `db/`: contains diamond, data, database and model information
  - `predict/`:
    - `*.align.daa*`: Diamond alignment output.
    - `*.align.daa.tsv`: Diamond alignment output as .tsv.
    - `*.mapping.ARG`: contains the sequences with a probability >= --prob (0.8 default).
    - `*.mapping.potential.ARG`: contains the sequences with a probability < --prob (0.8 default).

</details>

[deepARG](https://bitbucket.org/gusphdproj/deeparg-ss/src/master/) uses deep learning to characterize and annotate antibiotic resistance genes in metagenomes. It is composed of two models for two types of input: short sequence reads and gene-like sequences. In this pipeline we use the `ls` model, which is suitable for annotating full sequence genes and to discover novel antibiotic resistance genes from assembled samples. The tool `Diamond` is used as an aligner.

The `*.ARG` output files contain the following fields:

- ARG_NAME
- QUERY_START
- QUERY_END
- QUERY_ID
- PREDICTED_ARG_CLASS
- BEST_HIT_FROM_DATABASE
- PREDICTION_PROBABILITY
- ALIGNMENT_BESTHIT_IDENTITY (%)
- ALIGNMENT_BESTHIT_LENGTH
- ALIGNMENT_BESTHIT_BITSCORE
- ALIGNMENT_BESTHIT_EVALUE
- COUNTS

### fARGene

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `fargene/`
  - `fargene_analysis.log`: Contains the output that Fargene produced during its run
  - `<sample_name>/`:
    - `hmmsearchresults/`: Contains the output from hmmsearch.
    - `predictedGenes/`:
      - `*-filtered.fasta`: nucleotide sequences of predicted ARGs.
      - `*-filtered-peptides.fasta`: aminoacid sequences of predicted ARGs.
    - `results_summary.txt`: Text summary of run results, listing predicted genes and ORFs for each input file.
    - `tmpdir/`: Contains temporary output files and fasta files.

</details>

[fARGene](https://github.com/fannyhb/fargene) (Fragmented Antibiotic Resistance Gene Identifier) is a tool that takes either fragmented metagenomic data or longer sequences as input and predicts and delivers full-length antiobiotic resistance genes as output. The tool includes developed and optimized models for a number or resistance gene types. The model to be used has to be specified for each run (`--hmm-model`). Models available are:

- `class_a`: Class A beta-lactamases
- `class_b_1_2`: Subclass B1 and B2 beta-lactamases
- `class_b3`: Subclass B3 beta-lactamases
- `class_d_1`: Class C beta-lactamases
- `class_d_2`: Class D beta-lactamases
- `qnr`: Quinolone resistance genes
- `tet_efflux`, `tet_rpg`, `tet_enzyme`: Tetracycline resistance genes

<!--### RGI

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `rgi/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[RGI](https://github.com/arpcard/rgi) (Resistance Gene Identifier) predicts resistome(s) from protein or nucleotide data based on homology and SNP models. It uses reference data from the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD).
-->

### Prokka

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `prokka/`
  - `<samplename>/`:
    - `*.gff`: annotation in GFF3 format, containing both sequences and annotations
    - `*.gbk`: standard Genbank file derived from the master .gff.
    - `*.fna`: Nucleotide FASTA file of the input contig sequences.
    - `*.faa`: Protein FASTA file of the translated CDS sequences.
    - `*.ffn`: Nucleotide FASTA file of all the prediction transcripts (CDS, rRNA, tRNA, tmRNA, misc_RNA).
    - `*.sqn`: An ASN1 format "Sequin" file for submission to Genbank.
    - `*.fsa`: Nucleotide FASTA file of the input contig sequences, used by "tbl2asn" to create the .sqn file.
    - `*.tbl`: Feature Table file, used by "tbl2asn" to create the .sqn file.
    - `*.err`: Unacceptable annotations - the NCBI discrepancy report.
    - `*.log`: Contains all the output that Prokka produced during its run.
    - `*.txt`: Statistics relating to the annotated features found.
    - `*.tsv`: ab-separated file of all features.

</details>

[Prokka](https://github.com/tseemann/prokka) does whole genome annotation to identify features of interest in a set of genomic DNA sequences, and labelling them with useful information. It can be applied to annotate bacterial, archaeal and viral genomes.

<!--### Acep

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `acep/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[Acep](no page with source code found ...) xxx tool description here xxx
-->

<!--### AI4AMP

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `ai4amp/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[AI4AMP](https://github.com/LinTzuTang/AI4AMP_predictor) is a sequence-based antimicrobial peptides (AMP) predictor based on PC6 protein encoding method and deep learning.
-->

<!--### Ampir

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `ampir/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[ampir](https://github.com/Legana/ampir) (antimicrobial peptide prediction in r) package was designed to predict antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) from any given size protein dataset. ampir uses a supervised statistical machine learning approach to predict AMPs. It incorporates two support vector machine classification models, “precursor” and “mature” that have been trained on publicly available antimicrobial peptide data.
-->

<!--### AMPlify

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `amplify/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[AMPlify](https://github.com/bcgsc/AMPlify) is an attentive deep learning model for antimicrobial peptide prediction.
-->

<!--### Ensemble-AMPPred

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `ensembleamppred/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[Ensemble-AMPPred](no link to source code found ...) xxx tool description here xxx
-->

### Macrel

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `macrel_contigs/`
  - `*.smorfs.faa.gz`: A zipped fasta file containing aminoacid sequences of small peptides (<100 aa, small open reading frames) showing the general gene prediction information in the contigs.
  - `*.all_orfs.faa.gz`: A zipped fasta file containing amino acid sequences showing the general gene prediction information in the contigs.
  - `prediction.gz`: A zipped file, with all predicted amps in a table format.
  - `*.md`: A readme file containing tool specific information (e.g. citations, details about the output, etc.).
  - `*_log.txt`: A log file containing the information pertaining to the run.

</details>

[Macrel](https://github.com/BigDataBiology/macrel) is a tool that mines antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) from (meta)genomes by predicting peptides from genomes (provided as contigs) and outputs all the predicted anti-microbial peptides found.

<!--### NeuBI

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

* `neubi/`
    * `output1`: xxx
    * `output2/`: xxx

</details>

[NeuBI](https://github.com/nafizh/NeuBI) (Neural Bacteriocin Identifier) is a recurrent neural network based software to predict bacteriocins from protein sequences. Unlike traditional alignment based approaches such as BLAST or HMMER used by BAGEL or BACTIBASE, this is an alignment free approach towards finding novel bacteriocins.
-->

### hmmsearch

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `hmmersearch/`
  - `*.txt.gz`: Human readable output summarizing hmmsearch results.
  - `*.sto.gz`: Optional multiple sequence alignment (MSA) in Stockholm format.
  - `*.tbl.gz`: Optional tabular (space-delimited) summary of per-target output.
  - `*.domtbl.gz`: Optional tabular (space-delimited) summary of per-domain output.

</details>

[HMMER/hmmsearch](http://hmmer.org) is used for searching sequence databases for sequence homologs, and for making sequence alignments. It implements methods using probabilistic models called profile hidden Markov models (profile HMMs). `hmmsearch` is used to search one or more profiles against a sequence database.

### antiSMASH

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `antismash/` most important output files:
  - `knownclusterblast/`
    - `*_c*.txt`: Tables with MIBiG hits
  - `clusterblastoutput.txt`: Raw BLAST output of known clusters previously predicted by antiSMASH using the built-in ClusterBlast algorithm
  - `knownclusterblastoutput.txt`: Raw BLAST output of known clusters of the MIBiG database.
  - `*region*.gbk`: Nucleotide sequence + annotations in GenBank file format; one file per antiSMASH hit.

</details>

[antiSMASH](https://docs.antismash.secondarymetabolites.org) (antibiotics & Secondary Metabolite Analysis Shell) is a tool for rapid genome-wide identification, annotation and analysis of secondary metabolite biosynthesis gene clusters in bacterial and fungal genomes. It identifies biosynthetic loci covering the whole range of known secondary metabolite compound classes and aligns the identified regions at the gene cluster level to their nearest relatives from a database containing all other known gene clusters. It integrates or cross-links all previously available secondary-metabolite specific gene analysis methods in one interactive view.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
